Okay, so
how did you do with the semantic HTML?
hopefully everybody did okay because
you know there's like 130 HTML
elements that are out there and
you might know 10 of them if you're lucky.
So this might be a place where you're
gonna learn a whole lot of things that you
didn't know about HTML.
So the first thing that I'm going to do
here in my CodePen is I'm actually going
to hide the whole web page as much as I
can, because it doesn't matter how this
looks, we are concentrating
on the the semantic HTML.
And it doesn't matter
what the CSS looks like,
because we are concentrating
on the semantic HTML.
We are communicating what it
is we want this page to say.
So for the people here in the room,
tell me a little bit about what kind
of elements did you use in putting
together your semantic HTML, yes.
>> I'll take the easy one.
So I put instant coffee facts inside of
a header and I put that inside of an H1.
>> Great.
>> And then to get the instant with the
fancy text, I put that inside of a span.
>> Awesome, yes,
just like we did with the style guide, so
we have a header for our web page.
The header is introducing a title here for
this web page in case it's
Instant Coffee Facts for whatever reason.
Other semantic elements that you
used here in your page, anybody?
>> I used just what you mentioned
just there and then h2 for
the header of the coffee instantly,
coffee convenience title of the article,
and then all I used paragraphs.
>> And then, some paragraphs.
Okay, so a little bit about this.
So, first of all, one of the things that
you want to be sure when you're working
with HTML for accessibility reasons is,
quote, don't skip heading levels.
You've probably heard this before, don't
skip heading levels, what does that mean?
Anybody know what that means,
don't skip levels?
You've never heard of that,
that was just great, yes.
>> So don't skip heading levels so that
would be like the header and then having
like article and then h1 h2, because for
people who use things like screen readers.
>> Right
>> That will kind of tell them what
part of the website they're hearing or
reading.
>> Correct, so yeah, we wanna be sure that
we're using these semantic elements in
order for the page to be summarized
correctly for screen readers and so forth.
But specifically, when you hear don't skip
headings, this means that we're gonna have
an h1, we're gonna have an h2,
we're gonna have an h3.
That kind of thing, we're not going
to go from h1 to h4, for example,
because we like the size of the h4 better,
or the styling for the h4 better.
What did we actually do
to address that issue?
We know semantically it has to be an h2,
but
we want it to look like an h4,
how would we do that?
>> CSS
>> We do it with CSS, right?
In our base styling, remember when we
put together our base styling here?
We came up with classes.
So if I want my h1 to look like an h3,
what could I do?
I can use my h3 class, and
apply it to my h1 element.
Make sense?
I'll say it again, so if I will have an
h1, semantically, that's what is required.
But it wanted to visually look like my h3.
I use my h1 element h1, and
then I have a class which equals my h3.
So it pulls in the h3 styling,
overriding whatever I had for
the element h1, because classes
beat elements, right, make sense?
That's why we did this
here in our base styling.
Okay, little tips like that all right so
yes
>> So
what we're accomplishing by
that is having all of the h1,
h2s layout in a logical order
>> Correct
>> And then that is consumed by
screen readers
>> Correct
>> That makes sense
>> And Google, yes,
because headings are super important for
search engine optimization too.
If you want a machine to understand
the structure of this page,
you have to write it so
a machine will understand it.
And that is done through HTML,
that's why HTML is important,
that's why we use semantic HTML.
I will die on this hill [LAUGH] okay?
So we start with our h1 there for
the page, and
then I have this set up as an article.
I didn't use div, I didn't use section,
I use article, why did I use article?
>> It's correct semantically
>> Presumably it's correct semantically,
but what else,
why is it correct semantically?
>> Let someone using a screen reader
know that what they're about to
consume is likely something
made up of multiple paragraphs.
>> It might be something longer,
yeah, anything else?
>> Okay, so articles specifically is
something that might be syndicated.
If we had no other context for this chunk
of text, could we still read it and
get value out of it?
Yes, it has a title,
it has some blah blah, right?
That could stand alone as its
own separate piece of text.
That is the definition of an article.
We could put it in an RSS feed, we could
syndicate it out to other websites,
make sense?
So that is why we choose article,
sections are just related information.
Div has no semantic meaning
to it whatsoever, okay?
Okay div is just, we need to apply
a class somewhere on this page.
Section is the stuff is related,
article is it can be syndicated.
So the question I always ask related or
syndicated,
related or syndicated,
related or syndicated?
Make sense?
You said a section for related stuff.
>> Section for related,
article for syndicated, okay?
So then obviously after
that we got our h2 and
then we have a bunch of paragraphs blah.
Then down here towards the bottom we have
our image, which I might have given you.
Did I give you the image?
Yeah, there isn't anything you need to
do here with the image, it's just there.
And then we have a footer,
the footer is a footer of the article.
Notice it's not a footer for the webpage.
What is the difference between a footer
for a webpage and a footer for an article?
First of all, did you know that you
could have a footer for a web page and
a footer for an article,
probably not, right?
Okay, so an article can
potentially have its own header or
it can have its own footer
depending on how you set it up.
Think about a new site, you might have
a header that would have the title and
the authors and the dateline and
all the rest of that stuff.
The footer could be used for
references for that article.
In this case, we're referring
to where this content came from,
which is from Wikipedia.
So this is specific to the article,
therefore this is a footer
inside of our article.
This is not a footer for the webpage,
which has copyright information and
lower navigation and
all the other things, right?
So, there's a difference between
footer for the webpage and footer for
your article.
In this particular case, in our footer,
we have a paragraph of information here,
and this is from the article,
it was called Instant Coffee.
We include a citation,
which is from Wikipedia, and
we state who created the picture,
which is a link back to the pixel
site to give him proper credit for
his picture, make sense?
Any questions on the semantic HTML?
>> I'm not familiar with target.
>> Okay, so Target has to do with
how this link is going to open.
If we don't include target when you click
the link it'll open in the same window
that you're in.
Target equals underscore blank,
the underscore needs to be there means
that it will open in a new window or
a new tab So
it has to start with an underscore.
If you just have target equals quote
blank, without the underscore,
you're opening it in a tab
with the name of blank.
Which means that if somebody went through
here and clicked both of these links,
you would wind up with one tab,
it would open the first link and
then that same tab would
open the second link.
When you use underscore blank,
it will have two separate tabs with
the two separate pieces of information